Customer Managed Deployment Agents blog post + pricing page update (#3800)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/customer-managed-deployment-agents-launch/index.md

---
title: "Introducing Customer-Managed Agents for Pulumi Deployments"

allow_long_title: true

# The date represents the post's publish date, and by default corresponds with
# the date and time this file was generated. Dates are used for display and
# ordering purposes only; they have no effect on whether or when a post is
# published. To influence the ordering of posts published on the same date, use
# the time portion of the date value; posts are sorted in descending order by
# date/time.
date: 2024-01-08T08:06:12-07:00

# The draft setting determines whether a post is published. Set it to true if
# you want to be able to merge the post without publishing it.
draft: false

# Use the meta_desc property to provide a brief summary (one or two sentences)
# of the content of the post, which is useful for targeting search results or
# social-media previews. This field is required or the build will fail the
# linter test. Max length is 160 characters.

> meta_desc: Customer-Managed agents for Pulumi Deployments is now available, allowing users to self-host deployment agents and get the same power and flexibility of Pulumi Deployments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
meta_desc: Customer-Managed Agents for Pulumi Deployments is now available, allowing users to self-host deployment agents and get the same power and flexibility of Pulumi Deployments. 
```

# The meta_image appears in social-media previews and on the blog home page. A
# placeholder image representing the recommended format, dimensions and aspect
# ratio has been provided for you.
meta_image: meta.png

# At least one author is required. The values in this list correspond with the
# `id` properties of the team member files at /data/team/team. Create a file for
# yourself if you don't already have one.
authors:
    - arun-loganathan
    - german-lena 

# At least one tag is required. Lowercase, hyphen-delimited is recommended.
tags:
    - features

---

At Pulumi, we constantly strive to build solutions that not only simplify infrastructure management but also align with the diverse and specific needs of our customers. To that end, we're thrilled to announce the general availability of Customer-Managed Agents for Pulumi Deployments. 

<!--more-->

## Primer on Pulumi Deployments

> [Pulumi Deployments](/docs/pulumi-cloud/deployments/) is a fully managed platform for managing infrastructure at scale, providing easy-to-use building blocks that can be used as a simple CI/CD platform or to build a sophisticated self-serve platform to support thousands of engineers. [Traditional CI/CD platforms](/docs/pulumi-cloud/deployments/versus) focus on the git push workflows which fall short when managing infrastructure where the same code base is used to create new infrastructure with no explicit git push event.  Pulumi Deployments go beyond the git push based workflows to offer deployment triggers based on REST API, click to deploy in the Pulumi Cloud UI, review Stacks, remote Automation API, etc. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Pulumi Deployments](/docs/pulumi-cloud/deployments/) is a fully managed platform for managing infrastructure at scale, providing easy-to-use building blocks that can be used as a simple CI/CD platform or to build a sophisticated self-serve platform to support thousands of engineers. [Traditional CI/CD platforms](/docs/pulumi-cloud/deployments/versus) focus on the git push workflows which fall short when managing infrastructure where the same code base is used to create new infrastructure with no explicit git push event.  Pulumi Deployments go beyond the git push based workflows to offer deployment triggers based on the [Pulumi Deployments REST API](/docs/pulumi-cloud/deployments/api), [click to deploy](/docs/pulumi-cloud/deployments/reference/#click-to-deploy) in the Pulumi Cloud console, [Review Stacks](/docs/pulumi-cloud/deployments/review-stacks), [remote Automation API](/docs/using-pulumi/automation-api), and many more features to come. 
```

> Since its launch, Pulumi Deployments have transformed how organizations manage their infrastructure. offloading the execution of Pulumi Infrastructure as Code (IaC) actions - such as previews, updates, destroys, and refreshes - to Pulumi-managed compute. Our customers have used it to deploy and manage mission-critical services, driving efficiencies and reducing the operational burden of deploying and managing infrastructure. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since its launch, Pulumi Deployments has transformed how organizations manage their infrastructure, offloading the execution of Pulumi Infrastructure as Code (IaC) actions - such as previews, updates, destroys, and refreshes - to compute Pulumi manages. Our customers have used it to deploy and manage mission-critical services, driving efficiencies and reducing the operational burden of deploying and managing infrastructure. 
```

## Deploy on Your Terms: Launching Customer-Managed Agents

> With the launch of Customer-Managed Deployment Agents, you can now self-host the deployment agents within your infrastructure, bringing the same power and flexibility of Pulumi-hosted deployment to isolated environments. Customers with hard security and compliance requirements can fully leverage Pulumi Deployments. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the launch of Customer-Managed Agents, you can now self-host the deployment agents within your infrastructure, bringing the same power and flexibility of Pulumi-hosted deployments to isolated environments. Customers with hard security and compliance requirements can now fully leverage Pulumi Deployments. 
```

## Key Benefits of Customer-Managed Deployment Agents

- **Host anywhere**: You can host the deployment agents anywhere to manage infrastructure, even within your fully private VPCs
- **Any hardware, any environment<sup>1</sup>**: Run the agents on any hardware of your choice and configure the environment that meets your needs

> - **Mix & Match**: You can use standard Pulumi-hosted deployments for your development and public stacks, and use self-hosted Customer-Managed Agents for your private network infrastructure. You can mix and match to suit your unique needs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Mix & match**: You can use standard Pulumi-hosted deployments for your development stacks and use self-hosted Customer-Managed Agents for your private network infrastructure. You can mix and match to suit your unique needs
```

- **Multiple pools**: You can set up multiple deployment agent pools, assign stacks to specific pools, and scale agents dynamically to increase your deployment concurrency. Customers can have up to 150 concurrent deployments

> - **Meet Compliance**: You can configure the agents with the credentials needed to manage your infrastructure. This way your cloud provider credentials never leave your private network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Meet compliance**: You can configure the agents with the credentials needed to manage your infrastructure. This way your cloud provider credentials never leave your private network
```

<sup>1</sup> *Currently Linux and MacOS are supported*

> Customer-Managed Agents support all the deployment triggers currently offered by Pulumi Deployments such as click to deploy, the Pulumi Deployments REST API, git push to deploy, etc. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customer-Managed Agents support all the deployment triggers currently offered by Pulumi Deployments such as click to deploy, the Pulumi Deployments REST API, git push to deploy, Review Stacks, and remote Automation API. 
```

{{% notes "info" %}}

> Customer-Managed deployment agents is available to business-critical customers. [Contact sales](/contact/?form=sales) if you are interested and want to enable customer-managed deployments. If you are a self-hosted customer, please [get in touch](https://share.hsforms.com/1YajiJ73sSuGn5RoTkyvKxg2mxud) to be notified when it is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customer-Managed Agents is available on the Business Critical edition of Pulumi Cloud. [Contact sales](/contact/?form=sales) if you are interested and want to enable Customer-Managed Agents. If you are a self-hosted Pulumi Cloud customer, please [get in touch](https://share.hsforms.com/1YajiJ73sSuGn5RoTkyvKxg2mxud) to be notified when it is available.
```

{{% /notes %}}

## How to get started

> Before you begin, ensure you have installed [Pulumi Github App](/docs/using-pulumi/continuous-delivery/github-app/) and update the [source control settings](/docs/pulumi-cloud/deployments/get-started/#:~:text=Fill%20out%20the%20Source%20control%20settings). [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/) is a requirement for the agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you begin, ensure you have installed the [Pulumi Github App](/docs/using-pulumi/continuous-delivery/github-app/) and update the [source control settings](/docs/pulumi-cloud/deployments/get-started). [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/) is a requirement for the agent.
```

### Install and configure the agent

> Go to **Deployment runners** under settings and click on Add a new pool. Provide a name and description. You will get a new access token for the pool. Ensure to copy and save the token in a secure location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to **Deployment runners** under Organization Settings in the left-hand navigation menu. Once on the Deployment runners page, click on the 'Add a new pool' button. Next provide a name and description for your agent. You will then get a new access token for the pool, ensure to copy and save the token in a secure location.
```

{{< video title="Install the agents" src="./install-the-agents.mp4" autoplay="true" loop="true" >}}

{{< notes type="warning" >}}

> If you run into issues, ensure docker is running before you configure and start the agents. ensure you restart or refresh the shell session (example: `source ~/.zshrc`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you run into issues, ensure docker is running before you configure and start the agents. Ensure you restart or refresh the shell session (example: `source ~/.zshrc`).
```

{{< /notes >}}

{{< video title="Configure the agents" src="./configure-the-agents.mp4" autoplay="true" loop="true" >}}

> Now your first agent should be up and running. You can verify the status of the agent by refreshing the page. Additionally, you can use the same token to set up multiple agents to increase concurrency of your deployments and they will be assigned to the same pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now your first agent should be up and running! You can verify the status of the agent by refreshing the page. Additionally, you can use the same token to set up multiple agents to increase concurrency of your deployments and they will be assigned to the same pool.
```

![Pool Details view](./view-agent-status.png)

> Agents poll Pulumi Cloud every 30 seconds to see if there are any pending deployments. In the pool page, you can see the last online status of the agents. Agents will disappear from the list after 1-2 hours of being offline. If you are running the agent inside a firewall ensure to allow outbound requests to api.pulumi.com.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Agents poll Pulumi Cloud every 30 seconds to check for pending deployments. In the pool page, you can see the last online status of the agents. Agents will disappear from the list after 1-2 hours of being offline. If you are running the agent inside a firewall ensure to allow outbound requests to api.pulumi.com.
```

    ```yaml
    token: pul-d2d2….
    version: v0.0.5
    env_forward_allowlist:
        - key_one
        - key_two
        - key_three
    ```

### Verify setup

You have completed the setup. Try out the agent by doing `Pulumi Refresh` through the **Actions** option drop-down in your stack page.

{{< video title="Run a deployment on the agent" src="./verify-complete-setup.mp4" autoplay="true" loop="true" >}}

You should see the logs in the agent running on the machine you configured and also on the Pulumi console.

On the deployments page, you can see all the deployments including pending deployments, and which deployment agents were used in a deployment.

![Deployments page](./view-deployments-status.png)

## Your Journey, Our Support
Customer-Managed Deployment Agents empower you to align your deployment strategies with the specific requirements of your infrastructure. Whether it's ensuring compliance, enhancing security, or customizing deployment processes, Customer-Managed agents provide the flexibility you need.

> Embark on this journey to simplify your infrastructure deployments with our new feature. We are here every step of the way to assist you. Share your [feedback](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-cloud-requests/issues/new/choose) with us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Embark on this journey to simplify your infrastructure deployments with our new feature. We are here every step of the way to assist you. Share any feedback in the [Pulumi Cloud Requests repository](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-cloud-requests/issues/new/choose) with us.
```
